Re-encode view-transition-names (#10099)
withastro/astro: .changeset/many-lobsters-accept.md

---

> "astro": minor

Reviewer: What's the reason of a `minor`? Should this be a patch?

Author: I always prefer patch level ;-), but here I am unsure whether the fix should be a minor as it might break code in rare cases. Astro users who only use `transition:name` will not notice any negative effects. In niche cases there may be surprises, e.g. if you use `transition:name` in an .astro file and `view-transition-name` CSS property in an .mdx file and both should match. Then it may be that they differ after we have changed the coding scheme. 

As I just wanted to construct an example that will a) differ and has b) worked before this fix, I see that those cases might be really rare. One would be "a_b" which now encodes as "a__b".

What do you think? Should I revert to "patch"?

Reviewer: I see! We can go with a `minor` then. Considering your comment, I believe the changelog should highlight the possibility of a "breaking change", meaning that users who were "leveraging the bug" might be impacted.

Reviewer 2: Minor is ok in this case since the release is only 2 days from now. If it were next week I'd rather fix the known regression than worry about unknown corner cases. But 2 days is ok.

---

Fixes an issue with view transition names containing spaces or punctuation.

> This fix could be a breaking change if you leverage details about how Astro translates `transition:name` directives into values of the underlying CSS `view-transition-name` property.
> This mainly affects spaces and punctuation marks but no unicode characters with codes >= 128.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Regular use naming your transitions with `transition: name` is unaffected.

However, this fix may result in breaking changes if your project relies on the particular character encoding strategy Astro uses to translate `transition:name` directives into values of the underlying CSS `view-transition-name` property. For example `Welcome to Astro` is now encoded as `Welcome20_to20_Astro2e_`.

This mainly affects spaces and punctuation marks but no Unicode characters with codes >= 128.
```

OK, this may be a little much, and of course, may not be entirely accurate. But, would something like this be helpful? It is a minor, and this *might* affect people, so I grabbed some context from the error and PR description in case we liked this.

Author: Perfect! Thanks a lot!
